stf — worked examples

Everything below runs against this build as shown. `stf <command> --help`
lists the full flag reference for any one command.


COMPRESSING A FILE

  stf pack notes.txt
      Writes notes.txt.gz beside it. The input, notes.txt, is left alone —
      unlike gzip(1), stf never deletes or replaces what you compressed.

  stf pack notes.txt -o archive.gz
      Choose the output name with -o/--output. Without it, the default is
      the input path plus the chosen format's extension (".gz" today).

  stf pack notes.txt --format gzip -o out.bin
      --format names the codec explicitly instead of inferring one from -o's
      extension. This build accepts gzip, zlib, deflate, bzip2, brotli, lz4
      and snappy.

  stf pack notes.txt --level 9
      --level asks the codec for a tradeoff: gzip accepts 0 (fastest,
      largest output) through 9 (slowest, smallest output). bzip2's range
      is 1-9, not 0-9 — it has no "store" level, so --level 0 is a usage
      error (exit 2) rather than meaning "don't compress". brotli's range is
      0-11, and unlike every other codec here its OWN default is 11 (the
      slowest setting it has), not something in the middle of the range.
      lz4 and snappy have no level at all — neither underlying crate exposes
      such a knob — so --level is accepted and silently ignored rather than
      rejected, unlike every other codec on this page.

  stf pack notes.txt --force
      Without --force, pack refuses to overwrite an existing output: exit
      code 2, the existing file left untouched, nothing written.


DECOMPRESSING

  stf unpack notes.txt.gz
      Writes notes.txt, stripping the recognised extension. As with pack,
      an existing destination is refused unless --force is given too.

  stf unpack notes.txt.gz -o out.txt --force
      Choose the name and allow overwriting an existing one.

  stf unpack data.bin --format gzip -o data.txt
      --format names the codec explicitly instead of detecting it. Some
      formats carry no magic bytes and no conventional extension, so an
      explicit --format is the only way to reach them.

  stf unpack raw.bin --format deflate -o data.txt
      Raw deflate has no header, no trailer and no conventional extension,
      so it cannot be detected at all — --format is the ONLY way in.

  stf unpack data.br --format brotli -o data.txt
      brotli defines no magic bytes at all, unlike gzip/zlib/bzip2's header
      bytes — detection from a file works only by the `.br` extension. A
      brotli stream arriving on a pipe, with no filename to go by, cannot be
      detected either way, so --format brotli is the only way in there too.


STREAMING TO STDOUT

  curl -s https://example.com/log.gz | stf cat - | grep pattern
      cat decompresses straight to stdout without ever naming an output
      file — the shape for feeding a compressed stream into another tool.

  stf cat data.bin --format gzip
      cat takes --format for the same reason, and --max-ratio to bound a
      decode that would otherwise stream an enormous file to stdout.


STDIN AND STDOUT VIA `-`

  `-` means the stream, wherever a path is expected: stdin for an input,
  stdout for an output.

  cat notes.txt | stf pack - -o notes.txt.gz
      Stdin has no path to derive a name from, so -o is mandatory here;
      leaving it out is a usage error (exit 2).

  cat notes.txt | stf pack - -o - | wc -c
      Both ends can be `-` at once: stdin in, stdout out.


INSPECTING A STREAM WITHOUT DECODING IT

  stf info notes.txt.gz
      Reports the format, the resolved chain, the fidelity "rung", and the
      size when it's known.

  stf info notes.txt.gz --json
      The same report as machine-readable JSON, for scripting.

  A plain file reports `rung: exact` — stf can seek it, so what it reports
  is verified. A pipe (`stf info -`) reports `rung: forward-only` — a
  stream can only be read once, so this is the tool telling you the format
  was inferred from bytes it saw going by, not confirmed by looking back.


WHAT THIS BUILD CAN DO

  stf formats
      Lists the formats compiled into THIS binary, not everything stf will
      ever support. Right now that is seven rows: gzip, zlib, deflate,
      bzip2, brotli, lz4 and snappy.


GUARDING AGAINST DECOMPRESSION BOMBS

  stf unpack bomb.gz --max-ratio 100
      A decompression bomb is a small compressed file that expands to an
      enormous one. --max-ratio refuses a decode once output has grown
      past this multiple of the compressed input (default 10000). gzip's
      structural ceiling is roughly 1032:1, so it cannot reach that default
      alone — here the flag mostly guards oversized input, or lets a
      cautious caller set a tighter bound by hand. It earns its keep once
      later phases add codecs and containers that CAN reach 10000:1.


SKIPPING THE DURABILITY FSYNC

  stf pack big.txt --no-sync
      By default, pack and unpack fsync the output before renaming it into
      place, so a crash cannot leave a truncated file under the real name.
      --no-sync trades that guarantee for speed on bulk or scratch work.


EXIT CODES

  0  success
  1  general failure (i/o error, or anything not listed below)
  2  usage error (bad flag, missing -o, existing output without --force)
  3  format not available in this build
  4  fidelity degraded under strict mode
  5  archive or stream is corrupt
  6  resource limit exceeded (e.g. --max-ratio tripped)
  7  unsafe path refused


NOT YET

  This build has seven codecs: gzip, zlib, deflate, bzip2, brotli, lz4 and
  snappy. No archive containers (tar, zip, ...) and no other codecs (zstd,
  xz, ...) exist yet — they arrive in later phases. `stf formats` always
  tells you the truth about the build you are actually running, whatever
  this page says.
